README.md, before:

# Question Explorer

A clean, modern web application for browsing and filtering interview questions. Built with Next.js 16, React 19, and Tailwind CSS.

**🌐 Live Demo:** [https://question-explorer.vercel.app/](https://question-explorer.vercel.app/)

![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-16-black)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-blue)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5-blue)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind-4-38bdf8)

## Screenshots

### Main Page

![Main Page](./docs/main-page.png)

### Question Detail Page

![Detail Page](./docs/detail-page.png)

## Features

### Core Features

- **Browse Questions** — View 100+ interview questions in a clean, scannable list
- **Filter & Search** — Filter by difficulty, type, company, and status (completed/incomplete/bookmarked); search by title, summary, or company
- **Sort Options** — Sort by votes, difficulty, or title (ascending/descending)
- **Question Details** — View full question details with metadata, company info, and problem description
- **Responsive Design** — Works beautifully on mobile and desktop

### Interactive Features

- **Code Editor** — Monaco Editor with syntax highlighting, language selector, and local storage persistence
- **Voting System** — Upvote or Downvote questions with persistent vote counts
- **Progress Tracking** — Mark questions as completed with visual indicators and progress stats
- **Bookmarks/Favorites** — Bookmark questions for quick access with filtering support
- **Random Question** — Get a random question to practice with one click

### User Experience

- **Dark Mode** — Toggle between light and dark themes
- **Local Storage** — All user data (votes, progress, bookmarks, code solutions) persists across sessions
- **Smooth Animations** — Polished UI with smooth transitions and hover effects
- **Progress Statistics** — Track your completion progress with visual indicators

## Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 16 (App Router)
- **UI:** React 19, Tailwind CSS 4, shadcn/ui
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **State Management:** Zustand with localStorage persistence
- **Code Editor:** Monaco Editor (@monaco-editor/react)
- **Icons:** Lucide React
- **Linting:** Biome

## Getting Started

```bash
# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run development server
bun dev

# Build for production
bun run build
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the app.

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js app router pages
│   ├── page.tsx           # Home page (question list)
│   ├── questions/[id]/    # Question detail page
│   └── globals.css        # Global styles & theme
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── ui/               # shadcn/ui primitives
│   ├── bookmark-button.tsx
│   ├── code-editor.tsx
│   ├── completed-checkbox.tsx
│   ├── filters.tsx
│   ├── progress-stats.tsx
│   ├── question-list.tsx
│   ├── question-row.tsx
│   ├── random-question-button.tsx
│   ├── search-bar.tsx
│   ├── sort-select.tsx
│   └── vote-buttons.tsx
├── stores/                # Zustand stores
│   ├── bookmark-store.ts
│   ├── progress-store.ts
│   └── vote-store.ts
├── lib/                   # Utilities & data loading
│   ├── questions.ts      # CSV parsing & question utilities
│   └── utils.ts          # Helper functions
└── types/                # TypeScript types
    └── question.ts       # Question type definitions
```

## About

### What you built and Why?

Question Explorer is a client-side interview question practice platform built to provide a clean, focused experience for developers preparing for technical interviews. The application emphasizes usability and performance, with features like code editing, progress tracking, and bookmarking to help users efficiently practice and organize their interview preparation.

### What you'd add with more time

If I had more time, I'd add more features like running your Python/SQL code, letting you share solutions with others, suggesting questions based on difficulty, and showing you cool stats about your practice habits. A backend would open up even more possibilities like user accounts, checking solutions, and building a community with discussion boards and solution reviews.

### Any interesting technical decisions

- Zustand handles state management, keeping things simple and persistent even without a backend.

- The Monaco Editor gives you that familiar VS Code feel for coding.

- Client-side CSV parsing at build time means super fast page loads since there's no runtime data fetching.

- The component structure is super clear, with separate "stores" for votes, progress, and bookmarks, making it easy to maintain and expand.

- Since this project doesn't have a ton of components, I've popped them all into a global components folder for now. But, we can definitely move them to local folders if they're only used in specific routes as the project grows!

Commit message:

docs: Expand future feature ideas in README to include detailed client-side and backend enhancements (#12)

README.md, after:

# Question Explorer

A clean, modern web application for browsing and filtering interview questions. Built with Next.js 16, React 19, and Tailwind CSS.

**🌐 Live Demo:** [https://question-explorer.vercel.app/](https://question-explorer.vercel.app/)

![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-16-black)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-blue)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5-blue)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind-4-38bdf8)

## Screenshots

### Main Page

![Main Page](./docs/main-page.png)

### Question Detail Page

![Detail Page](./docs/detail-page.png)

## Features

### Core Features

- **Browse Questions** — View 100+ interview questions in a clean, scannable list
- **Filter & Search** — Filter by difficulty, type, company, and status (completed/incomplete/bookmarked); search by title, summary, or company
- **Sort Options** — Sort by votes, difficulty, or title (ascending/descending)
- **Question Details** — View full question details with metadata, company info, and problem description
- **Responsive Design** — Works beautifully on mobile and desktop

### Interactive Features

- **Code Editor** — Monaco Editor with syntax highlighting, language selector, and local storage persistence
- **Voting System** — Upvote or Downvote questions with persistent vote counts
- **Progress Tracking** — Mark questions as completed with visual indicators and progress stats
- **Bookmarks/Favorites** — Bookmark questions for quick access with filtering support
- **Random Question** — Get a random question to practice with one click

### User Experience

- **Dark Mode** — Toggle between light and dark themes
- **Local Storage** — All user data (votes, progress, bookmarks, code solutions) persists across sessions
- **Smooth Animations** — Polished UI with smooth transitions and hover effects
- **Progress Statistics** — Track your completion progress with visual indicators

## Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 16 (App Router)
- **UI:** React 19, Tailwind CSS 4, shadcn/ui
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **State Management:** Zustand with localStorage persistence
- **Code Editor:** Monaco Editor (@monaco-editor/react)
- **Icons:** Lucide React
- **Linting:** Biome

## Getting Started

```bash
# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run development server
bun dev

# Build for production
bun run build
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the app.

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js app router pages
│   ├── page.tsx           # Home page (question list)
│   ├── questions/[id]/    # Question detail page
│   └── globals.css        # Global styles & theme
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── ui/               # shadcn/ui primitives
│   ├── bookmark-button.tsx
│   ├── code-editor.tsx
│   ├── completed-checkbox.tsx
│   ├── filters.tsx
│   ├── progress-stats.tsx
│   ├── question-list.tsx
│   ├── question-row.tsx
│   ├── random-question-button.tsx
│   ├── search-bar.tsx
│   ├── sort-select.tsx
│   └── vote-buttons.tsx
├── stores/                # Zustand stores
│   ├── bookmark-store.ts
│   ├── progress-store.ts
│   └── vote-store.ts
├── lib/                   # Utilities & data loading
│   ├── questions.ts      # CSV parsing & question utilities
│   └── utils.ts          # Helper functions
└── types/                # TypeScript types
    └── question.ts       # Question type definitions
```

## About

### What you built and Why?

Question Explorer is a client-side interview question practice platform built to provide a clean, focused experience for developers preparing for technical interviews. The application emphasizes usability and performance, with features like code editing, progress tracking, and bookmarking to help users efficiently practice and organize their interview preparation.

### What you'd add with more time

With more time, I would add:

**Client-side enhancements:**

- **Code execution sandbox** - Run Python/SQL code directly in the browser to test solutions
- **Solution templates** - Pre-filled starter code for each question type to help users get started faster
- **Progress tracking dashboard** - Visual charts showing completion rates by difficulty and question type
- **Study streaks** - Track consecutive days of practice to build consistent habits
- **Bookmarked collections** - Organize saved questions into custom study lists (e.g., "Week 1 Prep", "SQL Practice")
- **Question notes** - Add personal notes and hints to questions for future reference

**Backend-enabled features:**

- **User authentication** - Secure accounts to sync progress across devices and enable personalized experiences
- **Gamification system** - Points, badges, and leaderboards to motivate consistent practice and friendly competition
- **Automated solution validation** - Real-time code execution and test case validation to verify correctness
- **Community features** - Discussion boards for each question, solution sharing, and peer code reviews to learn from others

### Any interesting technical decisions

- Zustand handles state management, keeping things simple and persistent even without a backend.

- The Monaco Editor gives you that familiar VS Code feel for coding.

- Client-side CSV parsing at build time means super fast page loads since there's no runtime data fetching.

- The component structure is super clear, with separate "stores" for votes, progress, and bookmarks, making it easy to maintain and expand.

- Since this project doesn't have a ton of components, I've popped them all into a global components folder for now. But, we can definitely move them to local folders if they're only used in specific routes as the project grows!
